have you ever listened to a speaker
whose voice was monotone without any
vocal variety and sort of sounded like a
robot and I almost guarantee it was
painful to Listen to In This video I am
going to give you four specific tips of
how you can inject vocal variety into
your speeches and ensure that you do not
sound like a robot in your next
presentation along with body language
vocal variety is one of the most
important things you can do to keep the
audience's attention and my first tip is
to adjust your volume and when we think
about adjusting the volume within the
presentations we give we often think
about getting louder at suspenseful or
exciting parts of our speech but what's
interesting is you can dial the volume
down as well if you're talking about
something that is emotional
or serious or sad by bringing the volume
down you can have that equal impact of
recapturing the audience's attention the
key here is that you disrupt the norm
and if you think about the norm being
your average volume which should be loud
enough for the whole room to hear you
when you get louder you recapture the
audience's attention but you can also do
that by reducing the sound either one of
these is very powerful a powerful tool
you can inject multiple times in your
next presentation just like you can
adjust the volume of a speech you can
also adjust the tempo in terms of how
fast you're talking if you're talking
about something that's really exciting
you're playing a baseball game and you
hit the ball and it was going toward the
fence and you're rounding the bases and
they're throwing it to home base and
you're sliding in to see if you're safe
that gets the audience's attention it
makes them feel as though they are there
that they're at the game and then by
doing the
opposite by slowing down the pace
because as you were sliding into home
base you saw that the ball was entering
the catcher's mitt and that mitt was
about to tag your leg before you crossed
home
plate and you were out
that was the end of the
season the hopes dreams that your team
had ended right there by slowing down
the pace you can also recapture that
audience's attention bring them into the
story create a more immersive
presentation style the next way to avoid
sounding like a robot when you give a
presentation is to add a personal story
and why I love this tip is that we are
often passionate about our own personal
stories if we're talking about data from
company earnings
reports that is information that is
tough to get really excited about and
inject that personality into but if
we're talking about a personal story
that is funny or entertaining or
something that really mattered to us
naturally that excitement is going to
build and we are going to present that
information in a way that is more
interesting to listen to I've talked
about personal stories in the past
because they are one of the most
powerful ways to connect with your
audience they reduce the amount of notes
you need to write down because you know
these stories well in your head already
but this is yet another reason to inject
those personal stories because they will
add that vocal variety and essentially
prevent you from sounding like a robot
my final tip to avoid sounding like a
robot is to embrace
pausing this is a challenging thing for
many speakers
because silence in between
sentences can feel
uncomfortable we often fill this Silence
with what we call filler or crutch words
such as a um and so but basically any
sound or word that doesn't add any
quality to the speech instead it's just
just filling that silence but the
reality is that silence is more
enjoyable to listen to as an audience in
between sentences and it sounds more
professional it sounds more
polished embrace the pause get used to
being comfortable with pauses in between
sentences and this will have a positive
impact on your audience I hope these
four tips on sounding less like a robot
have been beneficial to you if they have
please consider subscribing to my
channel as I always try to create video
content that is helpful for you and
there's going to be a video popping up
right now in the corner of your screen
and this is a great video because it
talks about how to master body language
which is if not more important than
vocal variety equally important and
gaining and retaining that audience
attention